# key principles

## Developer Experience

- In the past, I have used Selenium for running end-to-end tests. Stability issues with that setup resulted led to my poor adoption.
- Make end-to-end tests simple to run and [debug](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer#debugging-tips)
- Push test failure notifications to our engineers
- Leverage open source libraries

## Accountability

- Push test reports to engineers
- Clearly highlight failures and suite stability through notifications and reporting
- Test failures to be actionable
- Make it as straightforward for new engineers to learn and adopt

## Scalability

- Run tests quickly and reliably
- Run as many test as we wanted in parallel

# Introduced an end-to-end testing system built with AWS CDK using Puppeteer, Lambda.

## Writing Tests in Puppeteer

- Puppeteer is Headless Chrome with Node API.
  - solves lack of documentation, all of our engineers know Javascript, no more Java. 😏
- High quality documentation & strong community of maintenance
- Ability to test against different page viewports and network conditions

# Drawbacks

## cross-browser testing.

- Given the other methods we use for catching browser-specific bugs (not writing browser-specific code, linting, JavaScript and CSS polyfills) we felt comfortable with this decision. Additional considerations included estimating migration time and setting up training for engineers to adapt from Selenium.

## Using Lambda

- Parallel execution is (virtually) at no extra cost
- No maintenance
- log for debugging through the CloudWatch service is logs fully searchable (solves debugging)

## CDK

- No maintenance
- Keep architecture as code
- easily replicate testing infra and debug
